Dr. Jayanta Mukhopadhyay (Mukherjee) is presently a professor in the Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India. His research interests are in image processing, computer vision, robotics, pattern recognition, computer graphics, multimedia systems and bio-medical informatics. He held the office of Dean, Outreach and Alumni Affairs of the Institute from April'2021 to June'2023. He also served as the head of the Computer and Informatics Center at IIT, Kharagpur from September 2004 to July 2007, and as the head of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and the School of Information and Technology from April, 2010 to March, 2013. He was a Humboldt Research Fellow at the Technical University of Munich in Germany for one year in 2002. He has also held short term visiting positions at the Univ. of California, Santa Barbara, and the Univ. of Southern California, Los Angeles.
Jayanta Mukhopadhyay is internationally recognized for his research work in the area of Image Processing as well as in Medical Informatics. He is known for his works on development of algorithms for various image and video processing tasks in the compressed domain. He has also contributed significantly in the area of digital geometry. In particular, he worked extensively on approximating Euclidean metrics by various digital distances, and developed various image processing algorithms driven by their geometry.

There are also other areas in image and video processing, where he did extensive work and contributed to the development of new algorithms and theory, such as in color image processing, fractal image compression, video analytics and modeling, document image processing, and analysis of cultural heritage images.

Jayanta Mukhopadhyay is also recognized for his works in areas of health care and medical image processing. He worked extensively in telemedicine, neonatal health care, and cancer radiomics. He is the lead investigator in developing an open source telemedicine system iMediXCare , whose different customized versions are running in a few hospitals and community healthcare programs. His research team also developed a medical image data bank coupled with a open source DICOM deidentification system , named CHAVI in collaboration with Tata Medical Center, Kolkata, a premier Institution for cancer research and treatment. He has also worked on medical instrumentation and assistive technology, holding an international patent on electronic smart cane for aiding navigation of visually challenged persons.

He has published about 375 research papers in journals and conference proceedings in these areas. He has authored two books ''Image and video processing in the compressed domain'' (CRC Press, 2011), and ``Approximation of Euclidean Metric by Digital Distances'' (Springer, 2020), and coauthored a book on ''Digital geometry in image processing'' (CRC Press, 2013).

Jayanta Mukhopadhyay received the Young Scientist Award from the Indian National Science Academy in 1992. In 2022, he received CAETS 2022 Communication Prizes for high potential innovation (2022) by the International Council of Academies of Engineering and Technological Sciences. He is a life member of Telemedicine Society of India (TSI), Indian Unit of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence (IUPRAI), and Asia Pacific Signal and Image Processing Association (APSIPA). He is a Senior Member of the IEEE, and a fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE).His area of interest include image and video processing, pattern recognition and multimedia system.